SPS Constitution

Article I- Name
The name of this organization shall be “Society of Physics Students at Berkeley”. It will also be known as SPS.

Article II - Purpose
	The objectives of the Society of Physics Students shall be to:
a)	encourage and assist students interested in physics to develop the knowledge, competence, enthusiasm, and social responsibility that are essential to the advancement of physics;
b)	stimulate interest in advanced study and research in physics;
c)	develop collegiality among physics students and faculty members;
d)	promote public interest in physics; and
e)	provide liaison between students and the member societies of the American Institute of Physics.

Article III - Membership
Any student of the University of California, Berkeley who is interested in Physics can become a member of the society via the application process at no cost.  However, members are encouraged to also become a member of Nationwide Society of Physics Students.
Only currently registered students, faculty, and staff may be active members in a registered student organization. Only active members may vote or hold office.
Club alumni are eligible to obtain a non-active member status. People externally affiliated with the club may obtain an associate member status.
We will not haze, according to California State Law. 
We will not restrict membership based upon race, color, national origin, religion, sex, physical and mental disability, medical condition (cancer-related or genetic characteristics), ancestry, marital status, age, sexual orientation, citizenship or status as a covered veteran (special disabled veteran, Vietnam-era veteran or any other veteran who served on active duty during a war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized).


Article IV - Officers & Elections
	Active members of the SPS will appoint a President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, Technology Chair, and Activities Officer. Each position may only be held by one person, and each person may only hold one position. The positions stated shall form the executive committee of the SPS. Elections will be held once a year approximately one month before the end of the Spring semester. The standing President will determine a time, date, and location for the election. A meeting time shall be designated for voting, and in the meeting, every candidate will be given the opportunity to speak for an equal period of time, to be determined by a plurality of members. Whichever candidate receives a plurality of the votes in each position shall be the executive officer-elect. If there is a tie, a runoff vote will be held between the candidates who tied. All executive officers shall serve until the next election.  The President will serve as the primary signatory.
	Officers are expected to:
		1) Fulfill all duties assigned to them.
2) Attend all meetings. Failure to attend meetings will bring into question the officer’s ability to maintain his or her position.
	If an officer does not fulfill his or her obligations, a vote will be held among the officers. If two-thirds of the officers vote for terminating the individual’s term prematurely, then the individual will be removed from his or her position.
If a position is vacated by resignation, removal, or any other situation, members of the executive committee will elect a replacement officer to fill the vacant position. Whoever receives a majority of the votes will assume the removed officer’s position immediately.

Article V - Meetings
	The SPS will meet at least once every month at a time and date determined by the President one week in advance. This general meeting will be used to discuss functional aspects of the club and serve as an opportunity for members of the club to socialize with one another. Members will be notified by email, social media, or other relevant forms of communication.  Minutes will be made available to members that could not attend the meeting.
	Any officer may also call any additional meetings if he or she deems it necessary. These meetings may be for all members or officers only. This officer will determine the time and date and notify members as soon as possible.
	Quorum for any meeting of the SPS shall be the ceiling of half of the number of people on the executive committee. 

Article VI - Constitutional Amendments
	If any member of the SPS wishes to propose an amendment to the constitution of the SPS, he or she may do so by formally writing down a proposal and obtaining a signature of approval from an executive officer. It is then the duty of the officer who signed the approval to add the amendment into the meeting agenda and inform the members during the meeting.  The vote must take place no sooner than the next general meeting and the President must notify all the active members of when the vote will be cast. Active members will be notified by any form of communication necessary to notify them. A vote of two thirds of the present number of active members is required to pass the amendment. The amendment will go into effect a week after it has been passed unless otherwise specified in the amendment.
All amendments, additions or deletions to this document must be filed with the LEAD Center in 102 Hearst Gym.


Article VII - Robert’s Rules of Order
	For situations not explicitly covered in the constitution that arise in the managing of the SPS, the SPS shall follow Robert’s Rules of Order.

Article VIII - Dissolution
	If any member of the SPS wishes to propose to dissolve the SPS, he/she may do so by formally writing down a proposal and obtaining a signature of approval from an executive officer. It is then the duty of the officer who signed the approval to add the dissolution into the meeting agenda and inform the members during the meeting.  The vote must take place no sooner than the next general meeting and the President must notify all the active members of when the vote will be cast. Active members will be notified by any form of communication necessary to notify them. A vote of two thirds of the present number of active members is required to dissolve the SPS.The dissolution will go into effect immediately.
	All unspent ASUC funds shall remain the property of the ASUC; all Graduate Assembly funds shall remain the property of the Graduate Assembly. Remaining privately-obtained funds may be donated to another nonprofit organization with prior approval of the ASUC Senate Finance Committee.
	The remaining funds shall finance the funding of firework research, so we can go out with a bang … physics style.

